	For this problem we selected transcripts 1 and 9 for extended evaluation in BLASTWhen the Optimize function of the search was changed from megablast (highly similar sequences) to discontinuous megablast (more dissimilar sequences) and blastn (somewhat similar sequences), there were changes in the number of hits, percent match, and e-value results from both the human and mouse genomic databases. It was interesting to compare sequences 1 and 9, because sequence 9 generally had more matches for both the human and mouse genomic databases at each of the optimization levels. Sequence 9 also had higher percentage identity matches. Lastly, to compare the human and mouse results, the mouse percent matches were higher overall, the e-values were lower, and the number of hits were greater, as would be expected since the original transcripts were from rodents.
Human Database Comparisons:
	For sequence 1, moving from megablast to discontinuous megablast to blastn, the number of hits increased from 6 to 18 to 55. So, as the criteria is loosened, there are more possible matches. In terms of e-values, each optimize search had results with e-values of zero, however the range increased significantly to up to 5.1 during the blastn search. The closer the E-value is to zero, the more “significant” the match is. This means it is less likely that matches will be found by chance. Finally, for the percent match in identity of the transcript sequences, the megablast range was 82-86%, the discontinuous megablast range was 15-79%, and the blastn range was 70-93%. The megablast range was largest.	For sequence 9, moving from megablast to discontinuous megablast to blastn, the number of hits increased from 7 to 34 to 75. So, as the criteria is loosened, there are more possible matches. For the e-values, the megablast range was from 0 to 1e-79, which is very small compared to the range of 0 to 1.5 for both the discontinuous megablast and blastn. The percent match range was again small and very high for megablast as 82-90%, but broadened to 71-91% and 70-93% for discontinuous megablast and blastn, respectively.
Mouse Database Comparisons:
	For sequence 1, moving from megablast to discontinuous megablast to blastn, the number of hits increased from 8 to 10 to 30. The-evalue range grew again from 0 up to 1.2 for the blastn. The percent match in identity of the transcript sequences, for megablast was 78-100%, the discontinuous megablast and blastn ranges were both 69-100%.
	For sequence 9, moving from megablast to discontinuous megablast to blastn, the number of hits increased from 8 to 29 to 79. This was a substantial increase in the number of matches as the criteria moved from highly similar to somewhat similar sequences . For the e-values, the all megablast results were 0, while the discontinuous megablast and blastn values were up to 0.35 and 1.2, respectively. The percent match range was again small and very high for megablast as 5 hits were 99% matches and 3 were 100%. The ranges then increased to 70-100% and 66-100% for discontinuous megablast and blastn.

